So we're looking pretty good so far.
We've got our bed he moves in the way that we want him to.
And we've got our choose which repeat forever.
And our randomly given heights so that makes it quite difficult to get the bed through them.
So our next challenge is to work out how to do collision detection.
So we want to take out bird and make it so that when he or she bumps into a pipe that the game is over.
So let's do that.
But first there is just one small hitch that I've noticed and that is that we want the Chib offset to
be reset whenever
the tube moves to the right of the screen.
So when we do that jump we want the cheeps to be in a different place and at the moment you can see
we've just got the same four locations repeating again and again which is not what we want so very easy.
We just have a cheap offset creator over here as well.
Right.
So how do we do collision detection.
Well essentially what we need to do is create shapes for our bird and our rectangles so that we know
where they are in space and then we look using GDX for a collision between those shapes.
So let's start off by creating a shape for the bird and a pretty good approximation to the shape of
the bird is a circle.
So I'm going to create a circle for the shape of the bird which is just going to overlap on top of the
bird essentially.
So let's create that up here.
And this is going to be a circle
I'll call it Bird circle.
This is going to be a new circle.
If I can spell it right.
And then we just want to create a circle that overlaps where the bird is.
So it's got to be quite similar to this.
But instead of using a batch we're going to use a shape renderer.
In fact we'll create our shape render up his
eye shape render
call shape Brender which is a new shape render so you should think of this just like a batch.
It enables us to draw shapes but batches just draw textures and we can't do collision detection directly
on textures.
We need to do collision direct detection on shapes.
So
let's do that down here.
So shaped renderer dot begin just as before and this time we're going to specify a type of shape and
all our shapes are going to be filled in.
So we use shape
render shape type dot filled.
You can see there's a few other options there that you can imagine you might want in a different situation
then.
For now we're going to have a color as well.
So that we can see the shapes are all in the right place.
Use that GDX versions of those whenever you get the choice.
And then we're going to take our bird circle and set it up to match the actual bird itself.
So we used bed circle dot set and we're going to set the center of the circle.
So that's going to be just the center of the screen and the x coordinate.
So GDX dot graphics.
Get with
Haverty the y coordinate is going to be bird y.
But remember bird Y is the y coordinate of the bottom of the bird.
So we need to add half of the height of the bird to get the center of the circle so we want that's flap
States to get height over to and then the radius of the circle.
We also want to be redstart flaps state to get height over to my we can use height or weight.
It doesn't really matter.
The width is slightly bigger than the height so I'm going to go for.
So I'm going to go for width so this will give us the center of the circle.
The x corner of the center of where the bird is the y coordinates of the center of where the bird is.
And then the radius of the bird so the distance from the center of the bird to the edge of the bed which
will just approximate has half the width.
I've got a couple of brief problems as well.
First I'll spell circle wrong.
And I also think I've brought in the wrong second class.
So yeah you can see I've chosen Java eFax there.
That Stephanie not the one I once
say we definitely want.
As I mentioned earlier we always want the bad logic ones the GDX ones.
Kate
lovely so now I can say that correctly.
Great.
And I can now take my shape render and render a circle and I'm going to get the x y and radius from
my bird circle.
So it's just bird circle toward X but circle dot Y and but circle dot radius there again and then shape
render dots and lovely.
So now we should find we have a red circle on top of our.
But all the time.
Obviously we're not going to have that there permanently but it will just show us that our bird circle
is in the right place.
I actually just can to me that up to the top I think makes little more sense there area.
And just before we run that there is one or two actual small changes we need to make.
We need t create our shape renderer and circle down here in the create method.
It won't like it if we try and create it in the general class.
I'll just copy those instructions down and then remove them from here.
OK.
So now we should find that we've got a big red circle on top of our bird and that red circle moves exactly
with our bird and we can use that red circle for collision detection.
Obviously we're going to remove the actual appearance of the circle when we're done testing but find
out.
There we go.
There's a circle and you can hear me in a sort of slightly odd way there alongside our bird.
Wonderful.
So a challenge for you now you're going to need to create a rectangle this time not a circle so it works
in exactly the same way but it's a rectangle rather than a circle.
And I want your rectangles to be on top of the pipes.
So for each set of pipes you're going to need to create a rectangle at the top and a rectangle at the
bottom and for now make them red.
Make them go over the top.
I'm not going to worry about the slight sort of shape there.
You might want to create two rectangles for each pipe if you want if you want to be super accurate but
to be honest if the bird is there it's going to be dead anyway.
So I'm just going to create one rectangle for each pipe.
OK.
Best of luck then go for it.
That was a fairly big challenge.
I hope you managed to at least give it a shot.
And we're going to need four rectangles at the top and four at the bottom.
So I'm going to create an array of rectangles
and let's make sure I choose the right one this time so bad logic.
There it is.
So an array of rectangles called Top cube rectangles
and another array of rectangles called bottom Chib rectangles.
And then I'll define them down here.
With my cube stuff so top Chib rectangles is going to be a new array of rectangles and there's going
to be four of them in it.
But I don't want to use for I want to use number of troops and exactly the same for bottom Chib rectangles
going to be a new array of rectangles.
And there's going to be number of cube objects in there.
And then for each of those We're going to define the rectangle to be a new rectangle.
So we'll just take top cheap rectangles I use a new rectangle and the same for bottom three rectangles
is a rectangle and that would just mean that everything is correctly initialized in the create method
and then we'll actually add the correct location of the rectangles down here.
So we can do that here and it's going to be very similar to drawing the rectangle to drawing the Choop
sorry it's just going to be creating a rectangle for each one which overlaps the cheap graphic itself.
So let's create top G rectangles.
And that's going to be a new rectangle.
And we create rectangles
if I can get the predicts there for us.
But the simplest way is to use an x and y coordinates of the bottom left and then the width and the
height so the x and y coordinate the bottom left are going to be exactly the same as the x and y coordinate
at the bottom left of the cube.
And then the width of the rectangle is going to be the same as the width of top tube.
So that's just topped You don't get width and the height is going to be the same as the height of top
tube top tube.
Don't get hyped.
And I think I actually missed that the x coordinate of the y coordinate that it's popped out in
cheap x.
I got the x coordinates the y coordinates the width and the height and then as you can imagine bottom
G rectangles I is also going to be a new rectangle.
Using cheap hex I again.
And then the y coordinates is going to be the same as the y coordinates
of the bottom of the bottom cheap and then width and height as before.
It's just going to be bottom Chib get width and bottom Chib don't get height.
There we go.
So with any luck those rectangles should overlap exactly the existing cheeps.
So now it's just a matter of displaying them.
So remember we're only displaying them so that we can be sure temporarily that they're in the right
place.
We don't need to display them in the real thing.
So we'll actually delete this code later on but it will be useful for us.
Now I'm actually going to copy the for loop again.
So each time we loop through we want to take out the raw and render a rectangle of x y width and height
again so we can get those straight from here because it's exactly the same.
That's what we had.
In fact we want to copy and paste them because we want to be sure that the red rectangles that we're
displaying are
exactly the same as the rectangles that we created.
OK so let's have a look.
We should now have red rectangles on top of all of the tubes as they move from right to left.
OK this is looking good.
We've got a red rectangle already.
And there we go.
So wonderful.
Now we're playing a game with no sprites just rectangles and circles.
But now we can do our collision detection and this.
Now that we've got our rectangles in circles it's it's super easy.
So let's do this after they shape Brender.
Actually I'm going to do it in this loop here because I need a loop anyway.
I need to check whether the circle is colliding with any of the cheaps
So our check is if and then there's a GDX method called into sector or GDL class called interceptor
which obviously we use to intersect things
and we want intersect dots overlaps and then you can see we can overlap circles and rectangles second
circles or rectangles and rectangles.
So we want to overlap
bird circle and top achieve rectangles I or why we don't want to overlap them we want to test whether
they are overlapped and we want to do the same with bottom rectangles as well say intersect dot overlaps
that circle
and bottom G rectangles I and for now will just log TDX dot dot log collision
Yes.
And it's as simple as that.
So we should now be able to detect whether the bird has collided with any of the rectangles and if it
has.
We'll get this log.
In the locks.
Let's take a look.
So here we go.
Stop playing and you can see that if I try and get through this one I fail and you can see the new collisions
wonderfully appearing that beryllium.
So now we've got our collision detection going on merrily there.
So now we no longer need our shape render.
So I'm actually going to get rid of all our Shabir under a carrot.
I think I actually just commented out so that you can still view it later if you want.
But the point is we don't need it.
And so let's just make sure that without the Shabir and are carried this works in exactly the same way
except we are the actual games graphics rather than the rectangles in circles just to keep things neat
as well.
Or comments out of shape Brender are carried up here.
OK here we go.
So now we're playing along merrily.
Let's see.
And just make sure that we're still getting the collision detection that we get.
So in collisions lots of collisions collisions lots of collisions etc..
Brilliant.
So one small change before we finish this video.
Well now I'm going to get rid of the fact that the initial Choop you remember starts off in the middle.
We don't want that to be the case.
We wanted to start off on the right of the screen.
So I'm going to add to that GDX don't get with GPS graphics don't get with.
And that will mean that the first Jeep starts off on the right of the screen as we want.
And then it will just come into the screen beryllium sort of go down collision detection we we're pretty
much done all we need now is a kind of game management system so we want to display the score and we
want to start and stop the game when they use the dice.
So we'll deal with the first of those to the score in the next video.
See if that.